>> David Khourshid: Okay, so the next one
that I want to talk about is actually,
it's a shorter lesson, but
it is one of the ways that you could
actually simplify basic forms.
Because let's be honest, a lot of our
application is just a bunch of forms and
most of these forms are actually
simpler than we realize.
So I'm going to go to
the scratch pad here and
just demonstrate to you basically
what we could do about forms.
So let's say that we have a form and
we have, you know,
first name, set first name.
And just for, just for this example,
we're going to only use one first name and
then we have a form which
handles that first name.
This is code that you learned when
you are first starting off in React.
It is probably the most basic and
common example of use dates and
working with forms, and so the idea is
that we would have an on submit over here.
And again, this is muscle memory, but you
would type event.Prevent defaults, because
the form is going to have some sort of
default action of reloading the page.
And you don't want that,
which is why we have it over there.
And then let's say that our form
just consists of the first name and
we want to do something with that.
We could just console log the first name.
But here's the thing, in HTML and the dom,
the form actually contains
the state itself.
So really we're duplicating
state over here.
When you type into an input, and
especially if you give it a name,
like let's say that we give
it a name of first name,
that data already exists
in the form itself.
So let me show you what I mean.
If we get rid of this on change and
instead we read the form
data from the form,
then we could really just in a way
we could derive that information.
So we're going to grab the form data
using this new form data constructor and
using this target,
which is the form element.
For some reason,
even though we're in OnSubmit,
TypeScript thinks that it
can be any random element.
So we have to say no, this is definitely
a form elements that we're working with.
And so what you're going to
get is a form data object.
And so the FormData object,
it has its own API, but
it is completely native and
supported in all modern browsers.
So what we could do is if we want to get
the first name, there's formdata get,
and then we could get that name, you know,
just directly from the form data.
And so what this allows us to do is
really eliminate a number of use dates so
we don't have to keep track
of each individual field.
Instead we could just read from that.
Now if you have many fields,
then we could actually use.
We could use Zod as well.
So how many of you are familiar with Zod?
Okay, or
whatever related library you're using.
So with Zod we could actually parse,
we could create a schema for
the form and so we could parse
that information from the form.
So let's say const form schema equals
an object where we have the first name and
then we could just add
some validation there.
But Zod also allows us to parse and
see that the entries of this form data,
which the form data you could
use object from entries because
it's going to be key value,
key value, key value.
And then you could create
an object from that.
So you could parse that
using the form schema.
And if there are errors and this allows
you to do form validation as well.
So you might have a first name is
required thing or something like that.
But we could get parsed data
firstname if it exists.
And we know that that's
going to be a string.
So that's how you could use Zod as
well in combination with form data.
So why am I showing you this?
This is definitely an alternative to using
just multiple use dates for your form.
But also when you're working
with a next JS application,
there actually is a hook that really
helps you with work natively with forms.
There's both a hook and there's
a native Next JS server components or
Server Action feature that allows
you to pass a server action
directly into a form and to use that.
And this will handle all of
your forms loading states and
the response from submitting the form and
everything like that.
So the way we could do that,
if I get rid of all of this,
we're going to grab
the use action state hook.
So it's gonna be states
some submit action.
So just gonna say, action equals, and this
is something that just takes form data.
So we're going to use action state,
pass that submit action in there and
and then also pass in an initial state.
And this is just something
that it requires.
So this initial state we
could just have as null and
it's also going to give us is pending.
And so the cool thing about this is that
we could pass in that form action directly
to the form and then we don't need to
maintain the, we don't need to maintain
each of the individual variables because
it's going to be done via name and
then when you press submit, it's just
going to go through that form action
we're going to get is pending, so
we could definitely have a pending state.
So if is pending, then we could
show something like a loader or
something like that and
then eventually we will have our state.
So if we have our state then oops,
not that,
but we could return the state that
we get from the submit action.